intro and props (#39)
tls-attestation/use-cases-and-properties: draft-mihalcea-seat-use-cases.md

     target: https://github.com/intel/MigTD
    I-D.ietf-tls-rfc8446bis:
    I-D.ietf-tls-rfc9147bis:
    CVE-2026-33697:
     title: CVE-2026-33697
     target: https://www.cve.org/CVERecord?id=CVE-2026-33697

--- abstract

This document outlines desirable properties and use cases for integrating remote

> attestation (RA) capabilities with secure channel establishment protocols.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
attestation (RA) capabilities with secure channel establishment protocols (e.g., TLS and DTLS).
```

--- abstract

This document outlines desirable properties and use cases for integrating remote
attestation (RA) capabilities with secure channel establishment protocols.
Peer authentication in such protocols establishes trust in a peer's network identifiers but
provides no assurance regarding the integrity of its underlying software and
hardware stack. Remote attestation addresses this gap by enabling a peer to

> provide verifiable evidence about its current state of the Target Environment. This document specifies a set of essential

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
provide verifiable evidence about the current state of the Target Environment. This document specifies a set of essential
```

## Establishing Trust in Secure Communications

Secure channel protocols, such as Transport Layer Security (TLS),
primarily establish trust in a peer's identity. This is typically achieved
through mechanisms like a Public Key Infrastructure (PKI), where a trusted
Certification Authority (CA) vouches for the binding between a public key and an
identifier (e.g., a hostname).

However, this model has a core limitation: entity authentication provides no
assurance about the peer's state, such as the boot-time and runtime integrity of its software

> stack. A compromised endpoint, for instance, can still present a valid X.509

Reviewer 2: declunkify
```suggestion
However, this model has one key limitation: entity authentication provides no assurance about the peer's state, such as the integrity of its software stack at boot time and during runtime.
A compromised endpoint, for instance, can still present a valid X.509
```

Remote Attestation (RA), as described in the RATS architecture {{RFC9334}}, is a
mechanism designed to fill this gap. RA allows an entity (the "Attester") to
produce verifiable "Evidence" about its current runtime state. This Evidence

> can include boot-time and runtime measurements of its firmware,

Reviewer 2: I don't see why this would be an improvement on the existing text.
The Attester's TCB covers more than just software measurements.

Author: Discussed in meeting:
TCB is confusing here. Explain what Attester's TCB means here?

Reviewer 2: > Discussed in meeting: TCB is confusing here.

Not sure what is confusing?

> Explain what Attester's TCB means here?

The usual meaning.

In any case, my main point is that software and firmware measurements are only one part of the TCB.  Other key dimensions (e.g., the attester's debug state and platform configuration flags) are ignored in the proposed rewrite.
That’s why I flagged it as a downgrade.
In the original, the term "TCB" encompasses all trust-related metrics and is IMO a better fit.

operating system, and application code, as well as the configuration of its
hardware and software security features (e.g., secure boot status, memory
isolation). A "Relying Party" can then use this Evidence, often with the help of
a trusted "Verifier", to appraise the Attester's trustworthiness.

By composing RA with a secure channel establishment protocol, a second
dimension of trust — trustworthiness — is added to complement peer

> authentication. This allows a peer to make authorization decisions based not

Reviewer 2: avoid passive form

```suggestion
Composing RA with a secure channel establishment protocol adds a second
dimension of trust - trustworthiness - to complement peer
authentication. This allows a peer to make authorization decisions based not
```

# Integration Properties

This section provides a list of desirable properties for designs that compose
RA with secure channel protocols. Proposed protocol specifications should make it

> clear which of these properties are fulfilled, and how.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
RA with secure channel protocols. Proposed protocol specifications should
clearly state which of these properties are fulfilled and explain how.
```

## Cryptographic Binding to Communication Channel

The Evidence or Attestation Result is cryptographically bound to the
specific secure connection (e.g., the (D)TLS connection). This prevents
**relay** attacks where an attacker presents valid, but unrelated
Evidence from a different connection or context. This binding is paramount for all
use cases because the absence of this binding can be exploited in high-severity

> vulnerabilities, such as [CVE-2026-33697](https://www.cve.org/CVERecord?id=CVE-2026-33697).

Reviewer 3: Could you change this reference to the typical I-D reference format, instead of just a Markdown link?

Author: sure

> vulnerabilities, such as [CVE-2026-33697](https://www.cve.org/CVERecord?id=CVE-2026-33697).

Reviewer 2: streamline and use a neutral tone

```suggestion
The Evidence or Attestation Result is cryptographically bound to the
specific secure connection (e.g., the (D)TLS connection). This prevents
**relay** attacks, in which an attacker presents valid but unrelated
Evidence from a different connection or context (see, for example, [CVE-2026-33697](https://www.cve.org/CVERecord?id=CVE-2026-33697)).
```

## Cryptographic Binding to Machine Identifier

Evidence should be cryptographically bound to the identifier provided to the machine by the infrastructure provider to prevent **diversion** attacks {{ID-Crisis}}.

## Attestation Credential Freshness

The Relying Party is able to verify that the Evidence or Attestation Result it

> receives was freshly generated by the Attester for the specific RA interaction {{ID-Crisis}}.

Reviewer 3: Not sure why the reference is needed given that we have the link to Section 10 of -rats-arch below.

Author: Fair point, I can remove it.

State is
transient, and credentials from a previous RA interaction may no longer be valid.

> Hence, this property ensures that the Evidence or Attestation Result cannot be inappropriately reused in other RA interactions {{ID-Crisis}}.

Reviewer 3: Idem. You're also literally just restating the above sentence

Author: which above sentence?

The solution supports using RA in conjunction with traditional PKI-based
authentication (e.g., X.509 certificates). This provides two independent pillars
of trust: trustworthiness (from RA) and identity (from PKI).

## Runtime Attestation

Evidence collected at certificate issuance or during the initial secure channel establishment reflects only the Target Environment’s state at that moment. It cannot guarantee that the Target Environment remains trustworthy for the lifetime of the certificate or even for the duration of the secure connection (e.g., the (D)TLS connection). As a result, such static Evidence is insufficient in environments where the Target Environment may change state after the connection is established and the connection is long-lived.

### Periodic vs. On-demand Attestation
It should be possible for the Relying Party to request new Evidence periodically or on-demand during the lifetime of the connection.

> This may be the case when the Target Environment has attributes that can change during the connection, affecting its trustworthiness. Such changes cannot be detected using Evidence collected earlier.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This may be necessary if the Target Environment has attributes that can change during the connection, thereby affecting its trustworthiness. Such changes cannot be detected using Evidence collected earlier.
```

> For example, the Evidence may include dynamic parameters such as runtime configuration flags (e.g., FIPS mode), where a device may enter or exit an approved mode, or measurements of critical system files.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, the Evidence may include dynamic parameters such as runtime configuration flags (e.g., FIPS mode), which indicate whether the device has entered or exited an approved mode, or measurements of critical system files.
```
